# Security Architecture overview

**NOTE** on the Primary vs Secondary asset.

- Primary asset is the one that has its own value independent of the system architected.
- Secondary asset is created as a consequence of security measures applied to protect primary and, possibly, other
  secondary assets.

## Protected primary assets

### Full CV

As stated in Threat Analysis, the most valuable asset is job seeker's full CVs as they contain private data.

So these CVs shall:
- be stored in secure persistent storage
- be available to original creator only on the Job Seekers side
    - among other this means that CV metadata shall contain, among others, information about it's owner
      and this information shall be treated as secondary security asset.
- be processed in the Trusted Execution Environment (TEE)
- be transferred using protected communication channels only
- access to them provided to Employers only after:
    - Approve from the Job Seeker side
    - verification of Employer identity in the process of providing access (Zero Trust principle)

### Payment Info

Another primary asset that should be protected is Employer's Payment Info.

It is not as secret as full CVS, but shall be protected against modification and unauthorized penetration to the DCC system.

### Trained AI models

Trained AI models are assets that require protection. 
In this architecture the models run on the TrainedLLM external system, which is not in itself in the scope of this architecture. 
The ClearView system must protect the access to the TrainedLLM system and ensure that it is used within the limits of its 
service agreement.

Assets to protect:

* Access credentials to the TrainedLLM system shall not be disclosed either to the users of ClearView nor to any other non-authorized third party.
* Access credential to the TrainedLLM system shall be stored securely and protected from unauthorized access.
* Usage of the resources provided by the TrainedLLM system shall be limited at or below the maximum usage agreed for the system.
* Attempts to violate the guardrails of the AI models, which are reported by the TrainedLLM system to the ClearView system, shall be logged in secure storage and reported to user Admin by the ClearView system.
 
## Secondary assets

To protect primary assets listed above, at least the following info shall be introduced in the system and protected appropriately:

- Job Seeker's Credentials
- Encryption Keys for encrypting full CVs
- TEE environments secrets
- Employers credentials

## Authorization

Authorization functionality treated in the meaning "Functionality that answers on the question: if certain authenticated 
actor is allowed to perform certain action on certain object".

Authorization data shall be treated as a sensitive: while it could (and most probably should) be treated as a publicly 
available for reading, changing this data (including adding new allowances, modifying, deleting access) shall be available 
to authorized DCC's personnel only.

# Architecture

## Authentication

### <span id="job-seekers-auth">Job seekers authentication</span>

#### Initial registration

Authentication with certain type of governmental issued ID should be required, but this is outside of scope of application
architecture.

2-factor auth shall be established at the time of registration.

#### Subsequent authentication

2-factor authentication is a must.

### Employers' HR systems authentication

We don't consider authentication of employers' personnel, as it is expected that only HR systems of employers will directly 
communicate with this DCC system.

#### Establishing relationship with Employer's HR system

At minimum, exchange of crypto certificates is required at this stage. 

#### Authentication of Employer's HR system

Every time when HR system requests access to sensitive data (Full CVs), authentication shall be performed including 
challenge-response type auth to make sure that HR system has access to private keys correspondent to certificates above.

### Payment system authentication

Payment system communications shall follow the same security requirements as employer's HER systems.

### DCC personnel authentication

Shall follow the same architecture as [Job Seekers authentication](#job-seekers-auth).

## Encrypted storage

### Full CV storage

Full CVs shall be protected in the way that each CV will be accessible to it's author only 
(and Suggestion and Anonymization AI, but these are internal actors).

This kind of protection could be achieved in different ways:
- Crypto keys generated per each Job Seeker.
- The same set of Crypto Keys is used for all Job Seekers, but different Initialization Vectors (IV) are generated for each Job Seeker.

As IV is not as secret data as crypto keys, the second method is preferred.

Though IV shall be stored separately from CVs themselves, preferably - inside the crypto facility.

### Payments storage

Payments information does not require encryption, though it should be protected by cryptographic integrity to avoid 
unwanted data modifications.

## Encrypted communication channels

Communication channels shall be encrypted with ephemeral keys following [TLS 1.3](https://doi.org/10.17487/RFC8446) 
standard recommendations.

Attempts to communicate insecure shall be rejected.

## Trusted Execution Environments

Applications that process sensitive data (Full CVs) shall be launched in isolated virtual machines 
(ex: [Intel TDX](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/tools/trust-domain-extensions/overview.html?wapkw=TDX))
to prevent unauthorized access from applications that could run on the same hardware.

Preferably (to avoid extra transportation over networks) AI models that will do enhancement advice and CV anonymization should
run in the same isolated VM.

# Authorization

As it was stated above, authorization decision is made on the basis of Actor ID, Object ID and Action ID, though 
sometimes additional information is required.

Below table provides overview of authorization decisions.

| **Actor**                 | **Object**                | **Action**       | **Additional data**          | **Decision**                                  |
|---------------------------|---------------------------|------------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| Job Seeker                | Full CV                   | Upload           |                              | Always allowed, authority shall be recorded   |
| Job Seeker                | Full CV                   | Read/Edit/Delete | Authority                    | Allowed if Job Seeker is Author of CV         |
| Enhancement suggestion AI | Full CV                   | Read             | TEE environment              | Always if runs in the same TEE as CV editor   |
| Anonymizer AI             | Full CV                   | Read             | TEE environment              | Always if runs in the same TEE as CV editor   |
| Anonymizer AI             | Anon CV                   | Append           |                              | Always                                        |
| Payment system            | Payment                   | Append           |                              | If authenticated                              |
| Employer's HR system      | Anon CV                   | Read             | Job Seeker Approval          | If approved by Job Seeker                     |
| Employer's HR system      | Full CV                   | Read             | Job Seeker Approval, Payment | If approved by Job Seeker and payment is done |
| DCC Admin                 | System Reports            | Read/Configure   |                              | Always                                        |
| DCC Admin                 | HR system connection      | Configure        |                              | Always                                        |
| DCC Admin                 | Payment system connection | Configure        |                              | Always                                        |

Any other combination of Actor-Object-Action is denied by default.
